geraniums are superb plants to grow in
your garden as they're so low
maintenance and they flower over such a
long period never think of them as a
one-year plant though by keeping them
out of winter Frost's you can grow them
on for many years and get endless
pleasure from them caring few geraniums
during the colder months is very
straightforward the first thing to
remember is that they originate from
warm climates and like me they're much
happier when they're in warm sunny
conditions unfortunately our winter
doesn't provide this so we have to give
them as near to summer-like conditions
as we can decide how you're going to
keep your geraniums during winter you
can either keep the mother plants
through the winter or take cuttings and
throw away the main plant although I
fully understand throwing away plants is
never an easy thing to do if you are
going to keep the mother plants during
winter now's the time to give them a
really good tidy up removing any dead
leaves and old flower buds you can't
give your geraniums a light trim now to
shape them but only do this if you have
really good growing conditions the
biggest threat to geraniums is damp so
if you're able to keep them somewhere
warm and dry then do go ahead and give
them a light trim use a sharp knife and
cut on the main stem just above a leaf
joint and your plant will heal over at
this point this will encourage lots of
bushy grows will lower down ensure your
geraniums are in good compost if they
have been growing in the same compost
for a while the nutrition will have been
used up and the compost will have
naturally compacted from a lot of
watering so it's always a good idea to
freshen it up and replant into new
compost your geraniums will need to be
kept somewhere warm dry and light a
heater greenhouse is ideal or a
conservatory or a sunny windowsill they
will not survive in an unheated
greenhouse as the frost will destroy
them they only need a minimum of five
degrees throughout winter to keep them
growing slowly the air must be fresh and
dry so if you're keeping your geraniums
in a greenhouse make sure you pop out to
the greenhouse every now and then to
open the windows and let
some fresh air in it's a good idea in
autumn to give the glass of the
greenhouse a good wash so that maximum
light comes in during winter geraniums
do not have a dormant period so if you
don't decide to take cuttings these can
be taken at any time again the better
growing conditions that you have the
more success you'll have to watch our
Nan's video on taking cuttings for lots
of tips and information when kept in
warm dry light conditions your geraniums
will be very happy and in the right
growing conditions geraniums can be full
of flower all year round
you